# CDT-Dementia-Diagosis
Creating an accessible dementia diagnosis tool, based on a supervised image classification of Clock Drawing Tests. This project started as research, yet with its promising potential, I develped the research further and am currently working towards creating an accessible mobile application. The application is aimed to act as an initial pre-screening tool for clinicans, or a tool for elderly people to self-test by themselves or their children/caretakers.

## Research Abstract
The elderly population is at an increasing risk of dementia, and accessibility to status-quo diagnosis tools is a significant issue, as proposed by the substantial rates of undiagnosed dementia cases. This study aimed to compare the performance of two supervised machine learning models, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) algorithms, in the supervised image classification of Clock Drawing Tests (CDTs) for the detection of dementia. The selection of Convolutional Neural Networks and Support Vector Machine algorithms pitches a well-recognised model (CNN) against a lighter and simpler (SVM) model which could be more apt for practical application. The study used a 40,000-image dataset containing labelled CDTs ranked by qualified clinicians from 1-5, where 1 reflects no cognitive decline, and 5 reflects severe cognitive decline and a high risk of dementia for the patient. Rigorous image preprocessing was performed to clean and extract key features of images before designing and training CNN and SVM models of classification. The performance of the trained models was assessed based on three factors: accuracy of classification, sample complexity, and computational complexity. These performance indicators were evaluated by inputting rounds of unseen data into the two models. Results showed that the constructed CNN (91.7% Accuracy) outperformed the constructed SVM (82.1% Accuracy) in accuracy of classification and sample complexity, while SVMs outperformed CNNs in computational complexity. Considering the importance of accuracy in detecting dementia, the study concluded that CNNs are a more suitable and high-performance model for this application. Finally, the results of this study showed how the combination of machine learning and CDTs can be used to develop accessible dementia prediction applications that elderly people can use to test themselves. Whilst considering the interpretability of these models as a clear limitation, such an application must be considered as a preliminary screening tool with additional advanced testing and care to follow upon initial diagnosis.
Development of the CNN and SVM models is present within this repository.
Dataset sourced from NHATS (National Health Aging Trends Study) upon request
My youtube video that runs through my research and displays an application demonstration: https://bit.ly/DementiaDiagnosisProgressVideo

## Application Development 
With the results of the research, the CNN has been determined as the best option to create an application. With this, I started the development of a iOS Mobile App using a trained MobileNet network (a condensed CNN). This network is trained on a small dataset and is stored on the client-side making processing fast and simple. 
Development of the application is present within this repository too. Below is the deomstration of a minimal viable product. The MVP has a simple user-interface allowing the patient/clinican/care-taker to submit an image of their clock drawing test, which is analysed through the trained MobileNet Model. The application provides the top two predictions made by the mobilenet network and presents a confidence percentage along with them too.
Application Video Demonstration: https://github.com/AdityaGhai18/CDT-Dementia-Diagosis/assets/143234139/837e12d8-76b0-49a3-8abf-dbf6bd0d2d91



